Dose Response Developer Notes
=============================

Building
--------

This codebase tracks the latest stable compiler and edition and typically gets updated within a few days of the new Rust release.

To get it built, you need to install the development and runtime dependencies (see the next section). That is, libraries that handle input and output (controllers, display, sound).

After that, just use regular cargo commands, no additional steps needed:

    $ cargo run --release

The default backend (and dependency) is SDL2. If you'd like to use something closer to a pure-Rust version, try the glutin backend:

    $ cargo run --release --no-default-features --features "dev, glutin-backend"

For now, this will still require the udev and alsa dependencies. Not relying on compiling any C code (or at least not installing any system-wide deps) would be nice, but it's not a priority. Patches welcome!

The game also works with SDL3:

    $ cargo run --release --no-default-features --features "dev, sdl3-backend"

You can compile multiple backends and switch between them in the game's settings, but note that you can't link SDL2 and SDL3 at the same time! You'll have to choose one or the other.

Dependencies
------------

Fedora:

    $ sudo dnf install systemd-devel alsa-lib-devel sdl2-compat-devel

Debian/Ubuntu:

	$ sudo apt-get install libudev-dev libasound2-dev libsdl2-dev

If the building fails, try installing the other dependencies from the "Building in a container" section.

# Building in a container

Here are instructions to build the game on a few popular distros. This requires more setup and dependencies, but gives you a more isolated experience.

Fedora:

```bash
podman run --rm -i -t fedora:latest bash

dnf install -y git cargo systemd-devel alsa-lib-devel sdl2-compat-devel 

git clone https://github.com/tryjumping/dose-response
cd dose-response/

cargo build
```

Debian:

```bash
podman run --rm -i -t debian:latest bash

apt-get update
apt-get install -y build-essential git libasound2-dev libudev-dev libsdl2-dev

git clone https://github.com/tryjumping/dose-response
cd dose-response/

cargo build
```

Ubuntu

```bash
podman run --rm -i -t ubuntu:latest bash

apt-get update
DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt-get install -y cargo git libasound2-dev libudev-dev libsdl2-dev

git clone https://github.com/tryjumping/dose-response
cd dose-response/

cargo build
```

NOTE: you can `cargo run` the game on all these distributions (demonstrating that linking the SDL and any other dynamic libraries is successful).

On Fedora, opening the window will fail with "No available video device". On Debian/Ubuntu the game will keep running, but since no window opens you have to kill it with ctrl+c.


Publishing
----------

1. Update copyright notice (year) in README
2. Update copyright notice (year) in src/windows/help.rs
3. Update the version in Cargo.toml
4. Build the game


### Sound Effects

All the sound effects (movement, attacks) were generated by jsfxr:

https://sfxr.me/


Adding messages into the replay log
-----------------------------------

If you want to pause a replay and show a message, you can put it in
the log manually. Timed message boxes have the following format:

    {"ShowMessageBox":{"ttl":{"secs":5,"nanos":6},"message":"Hello, world!"}}
